Quality of Life.md, before:

## Quality of Life

### LUKS Discard

By default, Qubes does not use discard with a LUKS volume. To enable discard, run:

```bash
sudo cryptsetup --allow-discards --persistent refresh LUKS-UUID-HERE
```

### S0ix sleep

On certain hardware like the Thinkpad T14 Gen 1, you need to enable S0ix sleep support for suspension to work correctly. Use the following command:

```bash
sudo qvm-features dom0 suspend-s0ix 1
```

### Default appmenu

The default apps to show on AppVMs' menu when created can be configured with `qvm-features`.

Example:

```bash
sudo qvm-features fedora-41 default-menu-items 'org.gnome.Nautilus.desktop org.gnome.Ptyxis.desktop'
sudo qvm-features fedora-41 netvm-menu-items 'org.gnome.Ptyxis.desktop'

sudo qvm-features debian-12 default-menu-items 'org.gnome.Console.desktop org.gnome.Nautilus.desktop'
sudo qvm-features debian-12 netvm-menu-items 'org.gnome.Console.desktop'
```

### Lenovo ePrivacy

Lenovo ePrivacy can be controlled through `/proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow`. I use the following shortcuts:

- F5: `sudo bash -c 'echo 1 > /proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow'`
- F6: `sudo bash -c 'echo 0 > /proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow'`

### Bitwarden Flatpak

Bitwarden Flatpak sometimes get stuck at launch.

Copy `~/.local/share/flatpak/exports/share/applications/com.bitwarden.desktop.desktop` to `~/.local/share/applications/com.bitwarden.desktop.desktop`
and add `--disable-gpu` at the end of the `Exec` line to fix it.

### Video player

In my experience, VLC works best. Changing video output to X11 video output (XCB) reduces CPU usage by 10% on my Thinkpad P53. See [this link](https://forum.qubes-os.org/t/vlc-video-playback-cpu-usage-improvement/23363).

If you want to use MPV, make sure that `--vo=x11 --profile=sw-fast` is passed as arguments. See [this link](https://forum.qubes-os.org/t/improving-video-playback-speed/21906).

Commit message:

Add note for secure Matrix setup
Signed-off-by: Tommy <contact@tommytran.io>

Quality of Life.md, after:

## Quality of Life

### LUKS Discard

By default, Qubes does not use discard with a LUKS volume. To enable discard, run:

```bash
sudo cryptsetup --allow-discards --persistent refresh LUKS-UUID-HERE
```

### S0ix sleep

On certain hardware like the Thinkpad T14 Gen 1, you need to enable S0ix sleep support for suspension to work correctly. Use the following command:

```bash
sudo qvm-features dom0 suspend-s0ix 1
```

### Default appmenu

The default apps to show on AppVMs' menu when created can be configured with `qvm-features`.

Example:

```bash
sudo qvm-features fedora-41 default-menu-items 'org.gnome.Nautilus.desktop org.gnome.Ptyxis.desktop'
sudo qvm-features fedora-41 netvm-menu-items 'org.gnome.Ptyxis.desktop'

sudo qvm-features debian-12 default-menu-items 'org.gnome.Console.desktop org.gnome.Nautilus.desktop'
sudo qvm-features debian-12 netvm-menu-items 'org.gnome.Console.desktop'
```

### Lenovo ePrivacy

Lenovo ePrivacy can be controlled through `/proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow`. I use the following shortcuts:

- F5: `sudo bash -c 'echo 1 > /proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow'`
- F6: `sudo bash -c 'echo 0 > /proc/acpi/ibm/lcdshadow'`

### Bitwarden Flatpak

Bitwarden Flatpak sometimes get stuck at launch.

Copy `~/.local/share/flatpak/exports/share/applications/com.bitwarden.desktop.desktop` to `~/.local/share/applications/com.bitwarden.desktop.desktop`
and add `--disable-gpu` at the end of the `Exec` line to fix it.

### Matrix 

For the best security with Matrix:
- Setup a TemplateVM with Debian and the official Element repo (there is no official rpm repo at the time of this writing)
- Add the IP address and hostname of the Matrix homeserver in /etc/hosts
- Make an AppVM based on the template
- Use the UI and limit the connection of the AppVM to just the Matrix homeserver
- In `dom0`, use `qvm-firewall <appvm name> del --rule-no <rule number>` to delete rules allowing ICMP and DNS to prevent exfiltration attacks.

### Video player

In my experience, VLC works best. Changing video output to X11 video output (XCB) reduces CPU usage by 10% on my Thinkpad P53. See [this link](https://forum.qubes-os.org/t/vlc-video-playback-cpu-usage-improvement/23363).

If you want to use MPV, make sure that `--vo=x11 --profile=sw-fast` is passed as arguments. See [this link](https://forum.qubes-os.org/t/improving-video-playback-speed/21906).
